OTP Verification using Python

Information:
OTP Verification is the process of verifying a user by sending a unique password so that
the user can be verified before completing a registration or payment process. Most of the time,
we get an OTP when we make an online payment, or when we forget our password, or when
creating an account on any online platform. Thus, the sole purpose of an OTP is to verify the
identity of a user by sending a unique password.
Description:
One-time Passwords (OTP) is a password that is valid for only one login
session in a computer or in a digital device. OTPs have various applications in
providing services such as Internet Banking, online transactions, etc. They are made
up of a combination of 4 or 6 numeric digits or a 6-digit alphanumeric character.
Using python, we can create an OTP generation and verification GUI. This can be
done by following a few steps.
The following is the block diagram of the flow of the steps involved in creating an
OTP verification GUI with Python.

Let us now see each of these steps in detail with the corresponding required code.
I] Enter mobile number input screen
Details:
In this step we will perform the following functions:
Entered mobile
no.
Input Screen

Generating,
Storing and
Sending otp

OTP
Validating
Screen

1. Creating the initial welcome screen which contains a text field asking users for the
mobile no. where the OTP needs to be sent.
2. In this step, the user enters their mobile no.
3. Additionally, this screen also contains the CONTINUE button.
4. When the user clicks on the CONTINUE button, the control moves to the second
step of the application i.e., Generating, Storing, and Sending OTP.

II] Generating, Storing, and Sending OTP
Details:
In this step we will implement the following functions:
1. Fetching the mobile no. that the user entered in the previous screen.
2. Generating an OTP.
3. Storing this OTP in a notepad file.
4. Sending the OTP to the mobile no. that the user entered.

III] OTP validating screen
Details:
In this step we will implement the following steps:
1. Creating the second screen which contains a text field asking the user to enter the
OTP that they received in their entered mobile no.
2. Adding a VALIDATE button. Once the user enters the OTP and clicks on this
button, we can validate the user-provided OTP with the OTP stored in our notepad
file(in step II).

Project Members
1) Priyanka Shivanand Jotawar
2) Gayatri Arun Patil.
